the UN Agency for Palestinian refugees
has warned of the risk of disease
outbreaks and dehydration across Gaza it
says the lack of access to clean water
and increasing summer heat is making the
situation worse humanitarian conditions
are rapidly deteriorating unoa says
there is a real concern that chera might
take hold so let's go to Central Gaza
now and speak to Al jazer Han Mahmud who
joins us outside the alak hospital in
Daryl Balor and of course we often hear
about uh The Killing and and the wounded
patients uh that are there but also now
uh people's people are losing their
lives potentially to what is a growing
Public Health crisis
[Music]
honey yes well this is the other silent
uh killing machine going on across the
Gaza STP and all because of the
humanitarian catastrophe created by the
ongoing intense bombing campaign across
the Gaza Strip the
displacement for more than 67% of the
total area of the Gaza Strip all
concentrated right now in the central
area and further southern part of the
city of of KH un but we're looking at
not only bullets and bombs are killing
people but but the difficult living
condition created by this genocidal war
on the on the ground are also killing
more people putting their life at risk
and poses major health risk from from
the limited access to basic supplies
including Water Supplies right now in
the Central Area there is a minimal uh
access uh to uh water to clean drinking
water to for the hundreds of of of
thousand of displ families in the
Central Area this is also coupled by
right now summertime the sharp RIS in
heat the dry weather the uh the
proliferation of of insects and rodents
that are created favored conditions for
transmitted diseases including
infectious diseases among displ families
here uh in evacuation centers and when
we talking about evacuation centers the
situations are not are not good at all
they are very dire catastrophic there's
there are piles of of trash surrounding
this evacuation Zone there's entire
collapse of sewage system and you you
walk in street that are either Rubble
filled or trash filled the streets or
roads but right now we're seeing also
ponds of sewage everywhere that causing
a great health risk for people in the
Central Area already the wh warn of the
sharp increase of documented cases of
infectious diseases among uh the most
vulnerable group here we're talking
about the children we're talk about uh
women who are either pregnant or they
are breastfeeding it's not only Mal
nutrition as well with these vulnerable
group but also the the spread of these
dis disas that are causing a difficult
health condition for them and of course
putting more pressure and more
difficulties on Health Facilities like
this one behind me right here thisa
Hospital they're not only dealing with
the uh injuries uh coming from targeted
s but also uh they have to make rooms
for patients and for those who are
catching and Contracting these diseases
that are making so far there's a large
number of people who uh who died because
of these condition
across evacuation zones and mainly here
in the central area as this part of the
Gaza Strip is running out of space
running out of infrastructure and proper
facilities to accommodate this large
number of people okay thank you very
much Han Mahmud joining us there from
the alak hospital in Dar Al
Bala make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer